and today's video guys I'm about to show
you how Pros optimize their PC with the
best bios tweaks and Windows settings
and speaking of BIOS tweaks the first
step which we're going to do is update
your bios actually guys for many people
this is causing their game to stutter
crash and have low FPS of all because
they have a super outdated version of
their bios and I'm going to show you
exactly how to do this in the first
place what you want to do is basically
restart your PC and then press the
corresponding key which says on the
bottom to enter your bios it can be F12
f11 or maybe even the delete key so what
you want to do in the first place guys
is make sure that you enter your bios
and for me right now it was actually the
end key to enter it so therefore what
you can actually do here most of the
times directly in the Bios it already
says you now mainboard z790 gaming xax
that way you know okay this is my
mainboard and if you want to know if
your bias is maybe outdated you can just
click on a q Flash and then it says here
on the left side guys your main board
your BIOS version the BIOS date from
where it is and all that so what you
only have to do is remember your model
name you know off your main board and
now I'm going to show you how I can
download the latest bios update so for
me I search you up now Gaby 790 gaming
xax bios there we already got it now I'm
on the official website and for you guys
it's always going to look a little bit
different depending on which
manufacturer your motherboard is from
but from me as mentioned it's a gigabyte
one and I'm going to click on bias and
then here already I got the latest
version which I'm going to download and
what you're going to need next which is
also super important is a small USB
stick guys this is intens one this cost
like 5 to 10 bucks really cheap you know
you can get them at like any local store
and it doesn't have to be huge huge as
mentioned this is only like a 10 mbit
file so therefore put the USB stick now
into your PC and once you got the USB
stick Now open up you're going to paste
in the following file which we just
downloaded with the BIOS update and then
all you want to do is extract all the
files in here and once you got it it
should look like this here and there's
going to be a super long file with
probably the name of your main board and
this is going to be the main one which
we need for the update you can leave all
of that here on the USB stick and now we
have to again go into a bios and once
we're back in here we're again going to
search up Q flash guys and once we not
in here we're going to click under file
on the top or something where we can
just like go further you know and then
you can select here the following file
from the USB State and click under the
Run button then it's going to tell you
are you sure you want to update your
bios and you're going to click under yes
and just simply follow all the
instructions as mentioned it's always a
little bit different red depending on
which manufacturer you have of your bios
it's super easy to find out all you have
to do is just Google up your
manufacturer and your main board and
there's probably going to be plenty of
tutorials for the specific main board
which you have for me guys right now
here I only have a gigabyte one so I can
only show this one but that's one of the
core steps which you have to do if you
really want to fix stutter and all of
that in fortnite because this fixed it
for me entirely are you tired of having
hyping in fortnite and you wonder how
all your favorite fortnite Pros always
seem to have zero delay what you need
for that is no ping guys you're number
one clan to reduce your ping in every
single game you guys want to play let's
say you want to play fortnite you just
search it up select it and no ping is
going to give you an overview of all of
the best servers available in your near
and the coolest part is it works on
multiple regions so if you like to play
cash cap on a different region it can
still help you to get the best server so
just select the server you want to use
click on to optimize this game and noing
is going to automatically help you to
get the best connection possible
additionally they also feature some FPS
boost features and they are all tested
tweaks which are going to help you to
improve your system speed make sure to
check out no ping with the link in the
video description next up guys I'm about
to show you how you can utilize the full
speed of your RAM because if you
actually would take out your RAM out of
your PC it's going to tell you a
specific value on it and I'm going to
tell you straight up guys most of you
out there are probably not using the
full speed of your RAM if you would
actually take out the ram out of your PC
it would tell you something like 3,000
MHz 6,000 MHz or even higher and many
people when they check in the testment
just see that their Ram is not utilizing
the full speed and I'm going to show you
exactly how to fix this or how to better
said set it up and guys trust me this
makes such a huge difference for gaming
now once you actually take a look at
your RAM you're going to notice there's
going to be a bunch of text on it so if
the time something along 3,000 6,000 or
whatever like a very high number which
is your mehz and then right behind it no
matter if it's dd4 or DDF 5 Ram you're
going to see a small number which is
going to start with a CL that's the cast
latency and this number we later have to
put in into our bios so therefore make
sure that you write it down but no
matter which Ram I checked you can read
it super clearly it's going to be
something like here CL
16188 38 you need to keep in mind guys
please remember this number we need it
then you're going to put the ram back
into your PC and I'm going to show you
how you can select the right profile so
for me as you can see it's actually the
delete key to get into the BIOS and now
we are already in here by the way this
gun look different for every user red
depending from where your motherboard is
from you know which brand but what you
want to do always is make sure that you
go from easy mode to Advanced any new
gen motherboard has this mode here just
simply look for words like Advanced or
expert or something like that then we're
going to go into the tweaker section and
in here we can already see now ddr5 Auto
booster we know already okay we are in
the right category and then you can see
here ddr5 XMP booster this exactly what
we want guys and at the moment it's
undisabled because I don't have a XMP
profile enabled so what you're going to
do is double click onto it until this
new window pops up df5 XMP booster and
in here now it's super important that
you just read the right manufacturer the
right module and the right number which
we got of our Ram so for me as an
example mine right now here is actually
from highx and it's a Corsair model so I
know I just simply have to look for
highx micron or all these other ones
here like Samsung don't really interest
me at all all I'm searching for is highx
I know for a fact that my Ram is running
on 7200 MHz now all I have to do is
match of course the numbers which I just
told you about previously that you
should wrote them down for me it's 36 46
46 and 150 with most Rams it should
match perfectly but sometimes there's a
small difference of like one unit which
is totally okay still so this is going
to be the one which I have to select so
what I'm going to do is double click
onto it and now you can see my XMP
profile is fully selected so all we got
to do now is save and exit and just like
that we already enabled our XMP now once
we are in hasm J and check our Ram
speeds we can see that's it's actually
now running at 7,200 MHz which is the
optimal and best speed for my Ram now
for this next step guys I'm about to
show you how you can disable your eour
because all of the latest Intel CPUs I'm
talking about 12th 13th and 14th gen
have actually two specific types of
course built in performance course and E
course and as the name already says
performance cores actually provide
better performance and usually your PC
utilizes both of them the performance
and eor and if you turn off all the e
course you only have the performance
course left which has found out to be
actually great for gaming because you're
only using the stronger course of your
CPU so therefore I'm about to show you
how you can turn them off guys and also
test them out directly in fortnite now
guys I'm about to show you again how you
can disable your ecourse because as I
just explained it actually can be very
beneficial for a lot of games you want
to do again is make sure that you're in
the advanced mode on your motherboard go
and the tweaker optimization something
like that advanced settings and then
most of the time you're going to find
something called Advanced CPU set and
this is exactly the one menu which we
want to open up and in here now we have
a bunch of options so what you want to
do is just simply scroll down all the
way and take can find something which is
somehow related to eour or PE course
it's going to be straight up called like
that and now you can already see once we
scroll down enough we can see CPU course
enabling mode now you can see CPU course
enabling mode and this one usually is
set to random mode because most of the
time your Windows PC decides which cores
should be used for whatever tests but
what we want to do is Click under
selectable mode press enter and now we
can actually change all the options here
of every single core now once we find
this list here now with all the e cores
this is where we want to turn them to
disabled and for some motherboards
there's an option overall to just change
it with one click mine right now here
which is a
z790 from gigabyte there's sadly no
options so what I'm going to do is I
have to disable every single e cor
manually so I just have to go for this
list here I'm going to speed up the
footage for you or just like skip
it and now you can see guys I disabled
all of the active ecor and this is
exactly how it should look like what we
know we're going to do is Click under
save and exit make sure to click again
under save and exit setup click under
okay and now it's going to ask us do we
really want to put all of these here to
deactivated or disabled basically and
we're going to click under yes now PC
should restart real quick and now all
the eords are fully disabled there we
are now in Windows directly and once
going take a look at our CPU now you can
see guys we have a way lower amount of
cores since it's actually Intel Core I9
13th gen this one should have a lot more
but yeah you can see we're only running
the PE course which are the performance
ones which means our PC is now mainly
focusing and handling every task on the
peor guys it's actually insane how
consistent these 240 FPS now are do you
see this I'm fully moving around and
basically nothing now we're going to
check this of course as well on
unlimited just to see and we are getting
700 800 FPS while even looking at the
normal map guys like I don't know if you
realize how insane this is
but this is a really good
performance even here 5 600 FPS while
doing a whole bunch of free building yep
700 FPS while even falling down looking
all over the map like my FPS have never
been actually better this is insane as
mentioned if you're running any inal cor
from the 12th 13th 14th gen this is
exactly what you have to do guys and now
I'm going to show you guys how you can
lower the amount of processes on your
Windows PC which is also going to lower
the overall memory usage which is very
important especially on verse PCS before
we apply anything please make sure that
you create a restore point guys all you
got to do is search up restart point and
then already in here you can see now
create a restart point just simply click
onto it and name it something like
before tweaks then we're going to click
under create and wait for it to finish
once we finished with that we're going
to head over to Startup apps open it up
and please in here make sure that
everything is disabled which you don't
need 100% whenever you're launching your
PC what many people don't know is once
you actually started steam it's going to
open up as well 5 to 10 background
processes which are all linked to it so
if for whatever reason you don't even
need your Steam for the whole entire day
because you only play fortnite or
something like that you don't want all
of these services to get started in the
background it's not only one it's
actually multiple that's why you have
such a high amount here as well so
therefore on the start up I made sure
that I deactivated completely everything
which I don't need besides my goxlr and
epic games launcher then for this next
step we're going to search up the Chris
Titus tag utility and click on the first
BL this is the number one debling tool
which I can highly recommend you made by
the legend himself and it's very easy to
use all you got to do is click here and
copy the following comment then you're
going to go into a Windows search bar
and type in that Powershell until you
can find Windows Powershell not one of
these here but straight up pow shell
many people always confuse that all you
got to do is right click and run as
administrator click under yes and once
it's opened up you're going to paste in
the following link and press enter and
just simply wait for it to fully load up
it's going to take only a few seconds
and the best part about it is that you
don't have to download anything or what
ever it's all working directly from
Parell now in here we're going to focus
Under The Tweak section and in here now
we have recommended selections which are
standard minimal or clear what I would
recommend you straight up guys is to
select standard because it already
creates for you as well restore point
deletes all the temporary files from
your PC disables Elementry which is
Microsoft collecting data of your PC and
a whole bunch of other stuff like game
DVR which is this built-in Windows
application which kind of works for
recording games and all of that and the
coolest part is you can hover above
every single option and it will give you
a detailed EXP explation of what it does
directly just a quick reminder all of
these are essential tweaks so therefore
they're very good in terms of gaining
performance and actually speeding up
your PC they're very well tested and
Chris Titus is a very known member of
this community so what you want to do
before you do all that though is Click
under run o and O shut up 10 this is a
tool specifically focused on privacy and
policy settings basically making sure
that your Windows PC does not collect
even more data of you or but as said
Microsoft you can see something like
here disables suggest sus in the
timeline which are kind of here on the
bottom you know with like ads and all
the stuff around you um disable
suggestions in start disabled transm
missioning of typing information also
disable and reset advertising ID and
info basically all of that here where
Microsoft is just as mentioned
collecting even more data of you so what
you want to do is click on the actions
on the top and apply only recommended
settings these are 100% safe and will
not interfere with you playing games
recording or whatever so click under
that make sure that you again create a
restart point just in case so is super
safe as mentioned and then once it's
done guys you can see now a full set of
settings has been applied we're going to
click under okay and close this and once
we now back in the main tool itself all
we got to do is Click under run tweaks
on the bottom and now if we actually
check out the actual poell we can see
now we're first of all getting again a
restart point so it's 100% safe guys you
are chilling super with this if you
don't like it just again use the restart
point but now once we're done with that
it's now going to apply all of the
tweaks step by step to your windows
which is very nice it works very fluent
and after some time it should be
completed and once the process is
completed it should say tweaks are
finished on the bottom now you can close
this and you can also see that you have
a bunch of more dis space because as
mentioned it also did an entire cleanup
on your PC just deleting as mentioned
unnecessarily an unwanted data so
therefore temp files click on okay and
we're good to go now for this next step
what you want to do is first of all go
into your window search bar and type in
the game until you can find game mode
settings the windows game mode is
amazing because what it does it will
focus the main power of your CPU and
your GPU towards the game in the
foreground so if you're launching
fortnite right now it's going to focus
all of your CPU and GPU power towards
making sure that you have the most
consistent FPS so therefore you
definitely want to utilize this one then
next up you want to click under related
settings and go into graphics and in
here now you want to add fortnite into
the list click on the browse in the
place then you're going to go under
local D then in here under program files
then you're going to find your epic
games then in here fortnite and follow
what I'm
[Music]
doing and now here we can see fortnite
Clan windows 64 shipping access this is
the one which you want to select once
you get it then here in the list what
you want to do is hover over it and
click and then you can find the options
where you can put it on high performance
guys you don't want to put it on power
saving or let Windows decide but
straight up high performance and click
under save now for this next step you
want to go again into your window search
bar and type in the energy until you can
find added power plan once you got it
you're going to hover over it again
click on options on the top and now in
here you can see the ultimate
performance mode and I see so many
people who use bance or any other one
like power saving and guys you're losing
out on so much performance it's actually
insane if you are on a capable PC and I
would say anything from the newer int
core I 3es which are pretty good already
with like up to what 6 eight cores I
think even the new ones something like a
New Horizon 5 from at least like the
fifth series or something like that you
should definitely utilize the ultimate
performance one and if this one is not
available for you don't be worried just
simply go into your browser go into
Google and type in the ultimate
performance power PL command and from
here you can directly copy it or from
the video description once you get it
then all you got to do is go again into
a window search bar type in there CMD
right click onto it and run it as
administrator click under yes and now in
here all you got to do is paste it again
in there and press enter Then you can
see the ultimate performance mode is
enabled so once we go back into our
options and just go one back and one
forth you can then see that it's been
added to the list which you can open up
here with this small arrow and from
there on you can enable the ultimate
performance one as mentioned if your PC
is maybe not the best I would recommend
you to test out high performance in the
first place and then ultimate
performance and see how huge the
difference is but for most of you out
there with a somehow capable gaming PC
the ultimate performance mode is still
the best option